Do you remember the famous toast, "Here's to pure mathematics - nay it never be of use to anybody"? -- Arthur C. Clarke
"Daddy, people think really small numbers are easy to work with, but they are not, because really small numbers are really big negative numbers" (Eamonn Ryan, age 4, self-proclaimed mathematician).
"But don't panic. Base 8 is just like Base 10 really. If you're missing two fingers." -- Tom Lehrer
"This is a one line proof...if we start sufficiently far to the left."
“These days, even the most pure and abstract mathematics is in danger to be applied.”
"The number you have dialed is imaginary. Please rotate your phone 90 degrees and try again."
"Natural numbers are better for your health."
"Decimals have a point."
"Polar coordinates aren't just arctic fashions."
"What's one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one?" "I don't know," said Alice. "I lost count." "She can't do addition," said the Red Queen." -- Lewis Carroll (check out our Tribute to Lewis Carroll)
"A math student's best friend is BOB (the Back Of the Book), but remember that BOB doesn't come to school on test days." -- Josh Folb
“I advise my students to listen carefully the moment they decide to take no more mathematics courses. They might be able to hear the sound of closing doors.” -- James Caballero
"Not everything that counts can be counted. Not everything that can be counted counts. -- Albert Einstein
"Minus times minus equals plus; The reason for this we won't discuss."
"The elegance of a theorem is directly proportional to the number of ideas you can see in it and inversely proportional to the effort it take to see them." -- George Polya
An interesting theorem of mathematics differs from interesting results in other fields because over and above the surpise and beauty of what it says, it has an 'aspect of eternity'; it is always part of an infinite chain of results. -- Leo Zeppen
"A theory has the alternative of being right or wrong. A model has a third possibility: it may be right but irrelevant" -- Manfred Eigen
"A first-rate theory predicts; a second-rate theory forbids; and a third-rate theory explains after the event" -- A. J. Kitaigorodskii
"I understand mathematics, I just can't do proofs."
"No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right, but a single experiment might prove me wrong" -- Albert Einstein
"Three out of every two people are bad at working with fractions".~Mrs. Barton's 2010 Algebra 1 class
“A law of conservation of difficulties: there is no easy way to prove a deep result.”
“What is a rigorous definition of rigor?”
"It is an error to believe that rigor in a proof is an enemy of simplicity. On the contrary we find it confirmed by numerous examples that the rigorous method is, at the same time, the simpler and the more easily comprehended. The very effort for rigor forces us to find the simpler methods of proof." -- David Hilbert
"Do the math: Count your blessings."
"An idea which can be used once is a trick. If it can be used more than once it becomes a method." -- George Polya and Gabor Szego
"We've all heard that a million monkeys banging on a million typewriters will eventually reproduce the entire works of Shakespeare. Now, thanks to the Internet, we know this is not true." -- Professor Robert Silensky
"The value of a problem is not so much coming up with the answer as in the ideas and attempted ideas it forces on the would be solver." -- I. N. Herstein
"Do not worry too much about your difficulties in mathematics, I can assure you that mine are still greater." -- Albert Einstein
"Logic is invincible, because in order to combat logic it is necessary to use logic." -- Pierre Boatroux;
"It is clear that the chief end of mathematical study must be to make the students think." -- John Wesley Young
"There are no solved problems; there are only problems that are more or less solved." -- Henri Poincare
"Every human activity, good or bad, except mathematics, must come to an end." -- Paul Erdos
"If there is a problem you can't solve, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it." - George Polya
"What is now proved was once only imagined" - Proverb
"Men who say it cannot be done should not interrupt those who are doing it."
"The point of philosophy is to start with something so simple as not to seem worth stating, and to end with something so paradoxical that no one will believe it."-- B. Russell, 'The Philosophy of Logical Atomism' 
‘Life is complex: it has both real and imaginary components.”
"Life is too short for long division."
"A man is like a fraction whose numerator is what he is and whose denominator is what he thinks of himself. The larger the denominator, the smaller the fraction." – Tolstoy
"The arithmetic of life does not always have a logical answer."-- Inshirah Abdur-Rauf
"A few honest men are better than numbers." -- Oliver Cromwell
"I must study politics and war that my sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy." -- John Adams
"Population, when unchecked, increases in a geometrical ratio. Subsistence increases only in an arithmetical ratio."-- Thomas Robert Malthus
"Life is good for only two things: discovering mathematics and teaching mathematics." -- Simeon Poisson
“Classification of mathematical problems as linear and nonlinear is like classification of the Universe as bananas and non-bananas.”
“There are two groups of people in the world; those who believe that the world can be divided into two groups of people, and those who don't.”
“There are three kinds of people in the world; those who can count and those who can't.”
“There are 10 kinds of people in the world, those who understand binary math, and those who don't.”
There are two groups of people in the world: those who can be categorized into one of two groups of people, and those who can't.
I've heard that the government wants to put a tax on the mathematically ignorant. Funny, I thought that's what the lottery was! -- Gallagher 
"Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former. –- Albert Einstein
"The notion of infinity is our greatest friend; it is also the greatest enemy of our peace of mind." -- James Pierpont
"The infinite! No other question has ever moved so profoundly the spirit of man." -- David Hilbert
"[Paradoxes of the infinite arise] only when we attempt, with our finite minds, to discuss the infinite, assigning to it those properties which we give to the finite and limited;" -- Galileo Galilei
"The infinite in mathematics is always unruly unless it is properly treated." -- Edward Kasner and James Newman
"God created infinity, and man, unable to understand infinity, had to invent finite sets." -- Gian Carlo Rota
Black holes result from God dividing the universe by zero. ~Author Unknown
"42.7% of all statistics are made up on the spot." -- Steven Wright
"Five out of four people have trouble with fractions." -- Steven Wright
"Statistics means never having to say you're certain."
"How many pizzas are consumed each year in the United States? How many words have you spoken in your life? How many different peoples names appear in the New York Times each year? How many watermelons would fit inside the U.S. Capitol building? What is the volume of all the human blood in the world? -- John A. Paulos
“A statistician can have his head in an oven and his feet in ice, and he will say that on the average he feels fine.”
"Statistics are no substitute for judgment." -- Henry Clay
"Statistics: the mathematical theory of ignorance." -- Morris Kline
"You can not feed the hungry on statistics." -- Heinrich Heine
"In earlier times, they had no statistics, and so they had to fall back on lies". -- Stephen Leacock
"97.3% of all statistics are made up."
"Are statisticians normal or are they transformable?"
"Smoking is a leading cause of statistics."
"43% of all statistics are worthless."
"3 out of 4 Americans make up 75% of the population."
"Death is 99 per cent fatal to laboratory rats."
"A statistician is a person who draws a mathematically precise line from an unwarranted assumption to a foregone conclusion."
"80% of all statistics quoted to prove a point are made up on the spot."
"Fett's Law: Never replicate a successful experiment."
'If there is a 50-50 chance that something can go wrong, then 9 times out of ten it will."
"Statistically speaking, in China, even if you are a one in a million kind of guy, there are a thousand more just like you."
"Did you know that 87.166253% of all statistics claim a precision of results that is not justified by the method employed?"
"It is proven that the celebration of birthdays is healthy. Statistics show that those people who celebrate the most birthdays become the oldest."
"Statistics is the art of never having to say you're wrong. Variance is what any two statisticians are at." - C.J.Bradfield
"A statistician is a person who draws a mathematically precise line from an unwarranted assumption to a foregone conclusion."
"A statistician drowned while crossing a stream that was, on average, 6 inches deep."
"Most people use statistics the way a drunk uses a lamp post, more for support than enlightenment."
"Figures don't lie, but liars figure." - Samuel Clemens (alias Mark Twain)
"The weather man is never wrong. Suppose he says that there's an 80% chance of rain. If it rains, the 80% chance came up; if it doesn't, the 20% chance came up!" - Saul Barron
"Calculus has its limits."
"The whole apparatus of the calculus takes on an entirely different form when developed for the complex numbers." -- Keith Devlin
"The Mean Value Theorem is the midwife of calculus - not very important or glamorous by itself, but often helping to deliver other theorems that are of major significance." -- E. Purcell and D. Varberg
"God does not care about our mathematical difficulties - he integrates empirically" -- Albert Einstein
"But just as much as it is easy to find the differential [derivative] of a given quantity, so it is difficult to find the integral of a given differential. Moreover, sometimes we cannot say with certainty whether the integral of a given quantity can be found or not." -- Johann Bernoulli
"Among all of the mathematical disciplines the theory of differential equations is the most important... It furnishes the explanation of all those elementary manifestations of nature which involve time." -- Sophus Lie
"In the fall of 1972 President Nixon announced that the rate of increase of inflation was decreasing. This was the first time a sitting president used the third derivative to advance his case for reelection. -- Hugo Rossi"
"Calculus required continuity, and continuity was supposed to require the infinitely little; but nobody could discover what the infinitely little might be." -- Bertrand Russell
"Who has not been amazed to learn that the function y = e^x, like a phoenix rising from its own ashes, is its own derivative?" -- Francois le Lionnais
"I recoil with dismay and horror at this lamentable plague of functions which do not have derivatives. -- Charles Hermite
“A circle is a round straight line with a hole in the middle.”
"Geometry is just plane fun."
"The only angle from which to approach a problem is the TRY-Angle"
"The shortest distance between two points is under construction." -- Bill Sanderson
"Geometry is the science of correct reasoning on incorrect figures." - George Polya
"Without geometry life is pointless."
“I heard that parallel lines actually do meet, but they are very discrete.”
"Geometry is the foundation of all painting." -- Albrecht Durer
"Bees … by virtue of a certain geometrical forethought … know that the hexagon is greater than the square and the triangle, and will hold more honey for the same expenditure of material." -- Pappas
"I am persuaded that this method [for calculating the volume of a sphere] will be of no little service to mathematics. For I foresee that once it is understood and established, it will be used to discover other theorems which have not yet occurred to me, by other mathematicians, now living or yet unborn." -- Archimedes
Expression and shape are almost more to me than knowledge itself. My work has always tried to unite the true with the beautiful, and when I have had to choose one or the other, I usually chose the beautiful -- H. Weyl
"Everything tries to be round." -- Black Elk
"Where there is matter, there is geometry." -- Johannes Kepler
"Inspiration is needed in geometry, just as much as in poetry." -- Aleksandr Pushkin
“Algebraic symbols are used when you do not know what you are talking about.”
“In modern mathematics, algebra has become so important that numbers will soon only have symbolic meaning.”
"Algebra is generous; she often gives more than is asked of her." -- D'Alembert
"One person's constant is another person's variable." -- Susan Gerhart
"I was x years old in the year x2." -- Augustus De Morgan (when asked about his age)
"Men are liars. We'll lie about lying if we have to. I'm an algebra liar. I figure two good lies make a positive.". -- Tim Allen
"We may always depend on it that algebra which cannot be translated into good English and sound common sense, is bad algebra." -- William Kingdon Clifford
"I don't know why I should have to learn Algebra... I'm never likely to go there." -- Billy Connolly
"As long as algebra is taught in school, there will be prayer in school. " -- Cokie Roberts
"It is hard to convince a high-school student that he will encounter a lot of problems more difficult than those of algebra and geometry." -- Edward W. Howe
"The most powerful single idea in mathematics is the notion of a variable." -– K. Dewdney
Arithmetic is where the answer is right and everything is nice and you can look out of the window and see the blue sky - or the answer is wrong and you have to start over and try again and see how it comes out this time. ~Carl Sandburg
Arithmetic is where numbers fly like pigeons in and out of your head. ~Carl Sandburg, "Arithmetic"
Arithmetic is numbers you squeeze from your head to your hand to your pencil to your paper till you get the answer. ~Carl Sandburg, "Arithmetic"
The hardest arithmetic to master is that which enables us to count our blessings. ~Eric Hoffer, Reflections On The Human Condition
[T]he different branches of Arithmetic - Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision. ~Lewis Carroll
If people do not believe that mathematics is simple, it is only because they do not realize how complicated life is. ~John Louis von Neumann
He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense. John McCarthy
In the arithmetic of love, one plus one equals everything, and two minus one equals nothing. Mignon McLaughlin
The problem of distinguishing prime numbers from composite numbers and of resolving the latter into their prime factors is known to be one of the most important and useful in arithmetic. Carl Friedrich Gauss
“May your life be like arithmetic-joys added, sorrow subtracted, friends multiplied, love undivided”
Mathematics is the Queen of Science, and Arithmetic the Queen of Mathematics. - C. F. Gauss
Thus number may be said to rule the whole world of quantity, and the four rules of arithmetic may be regarded as the complete equipment of the mathematician. - James Clerk Maxwell
No employment can be managed without arithmetic, no mechanical invention without geometry. - Benjamin Franklin
Arithmetic must be discovered in just the same sense in which Columbus discovered the West Indies, and we no more create numbers than he created the Indians.
— Bertrand Russell
I compare arithmetic with a tree that unfolds upwards in a multitude of techniques and theorems while the root drives into the depths.
— Friedrich Ludwig Gottlob Frege
"Arithmetic is being able to count up to twenty without taking off your shoes." -- Mickey Mouse
“Mathematics may be defined as the subject in which we never know what we are talking about, nor whether what we are saying is true.” -- Bertrand Russell
“Mathematics is made of 50 percent formulas, 50 percent proofs, and 50 percent imagination.”
“Mathematics is the art of giving the same name to different things.” -- J. H. Poincare
“Philosophy is a game with objectives and no rules. Mathematics is a game with rules and no objectives.”
"Mathematics is a game played according to certain simple rules with meaningless marks on paper." -- David Hilbert
"Mathematics consists in proving the most obvious thing in the least obvious way." -- George Polya
"In mathematics, you don't understand things. You just get used to them." -- Johann von Neumann
"A tragedy of mathematics is a beautiful conjecture ruined by an ugly fact.”
“Mathematics is like love; a simple idea, but it can get complicated.”
"If people do not believe that mathematics is simple, it is only because they do not realize how complicated life is."
“Mathematics is like checkers in being suitable for the young, not too difficult, amusing, and without peril to the state.” -- Plato
"The essence of mathematics is not to make simple things complicated, but to make complicated things simple." -- S. Gudder
"There are two ways to do great mathematics. The first is to be smarter than everybody else. The second way is to be stupider than everybody else -- but persistent." -- Raoul Bott
"Obvious is the most dangerous word in mathematics." -- E.T. Bell
"Arithmetic is being able to count up to twenty without taking off your shoes." -- Mickey Mouse
"The greatest unsolved theorem in mathematics is why some people are better at it than others." -- Adrian Mathesis
"Mathematics is not a deductive science – that's a cliché. When you try to prove a theorem, you don't just list the hypotheses, and then start to reason. What you do is trial and error, experimentation, guesswork." -- Paul Halmos
“The different branches of Arithmetic are Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.” – Lewis Caroll
"Mathematics is written for mathematicians." – Copernicus
"Mathematics should be fun." -- Peter J. Hilton
"Small minds discuss persons. Average minds discuss events. Great minds discuss ideas. Really great minds discuss mathematics."
"But in the new (math) approach, the important thing is to understand what you're doing, rather than to get the right answer." -- Tom Lehrer
"Most likely, logic is capable of justifying mathematics to no greater extent than biology is capable of justifying life." -- Y. Manin
“Relations between pure and applied mathematicians are based on trust and understanding. Namely, pure mathematicians do not trust applied mathematicians, and applied mathematicians do not understand pure mathematicians.”
"Since the mathematicians have invaded the theory of relativity, I do not understand it myself any more." -- Albert Einstein
"Only professional mathematicians learn anything from proofs. Other people learn from explanations." -- Ralph Boas
“The highest moments in the life of a mathematician are the first few moments after one has proved the result, but before one finds the mistake.”
"It is easier to square a circle than to get round a mathematician." -- de Morgan
[A mathematician is a] scientist who can figure out anything except such simple things as squaring the circle and trisecting an angle. ~Evan Esar, Esar's Comic Dictionary
"Old mathematicians never die; they just pass into another field."
"Old mathematicians never die, they just tend to infinity."
“Old mathematicians never die; they just lose some of their functions”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just reduce to lowest terms.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just disintegrate.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just go off on a tangent.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just get disarrayed.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just lose their identities.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just tend to zero.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just become angles.”
“Old mathematicians never die; they just become irrational.”
“Old mathematicians never die; their second derivative goes to zero.”
“Old mathematicians never die; their systems just become unsolvable.”
“An engineer thinks that his equations are an approximation to reality. A physicist thinks reality is an approximation to his equations. A mathematician doesn't care. “
“A mathematician is a device for turning coffee into theorems.” -- Paul Erdos
“A topologist is a person who doesn't know the difference between a coffee cup and a doughnut.”
"Mathematicians are like Frenchmen: whatever you say to them they translate into their own language and forthwith it is something entirely different." -- Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
“There are three kinds of mathematicians; those who can count and those who can't.”
“To a mathematician, real life is a special case.”
"To think logically the logically thinkable -- that is the mathematician's aim."--C. J. Keyser
"Everyone knows what a curve is, until he has studied enough mathematics to become confused through the countless number of possible exceptions." -- Felix Klein
"No more fiction, for now we calculate; but that we may calculate, we had to make fiction first." -- Friedrich Nietzsche
"How happy the lot of the mathematician. He is judged solely by his peers, and the standard is so high that no colleague or rival can ever win a reputation he does not deserve." -- W.H. Auden
"Two and two the mathematician continues to make four, in spite of the whine of the amateur for three, or the cry of the critic for five." -- James McNeill Whistler
"I have hardly ever known a mathematician who was capable of reasoning." -- Plato
"You know we all became mathematicians for the same reason: we were lazy." -- Max Rosenlicht
"The mathematician's patterns, like the painter's or poet's, must be beautiful. The ideas, like the colors or the words, must fit together in a harmonious way. Beauty is the first test: There is no permanent place in the world for ugly mathematics.”-- G. H. Hardy
"The mathematician does not study pure mathematics because it is useful; he studies it because he delights in it and he delights in it because it is beautiful." -- Henri Poincare
"The mathematician's best work is art, a high perfect art, as daring as the most secret dreams of imagination, clear and limpid. Mathematical genius and artistic genius touch one another."-- Gosta Mittag-Leffler
"The life of a mathematician is dominated by an insatiable curiosity, a desire bordering on passion to solve the problems he is studying." -- Jean Dieudonne
"A surprising proportion of mathematicians are accomplished musicians. Is it because music and mathematics share patterns that are beautiful?" -- Martin Gardner
"A mathematician, like a painter or poet, is a maker of patterns. If his patterns are more permanent than theirs, it is because they are made with ideas." -- G. H. Hardy
"Some mathematician, I believe, has said that true pleasure lies not in the discovery of truth, but in the search for it." -- Tolstoy
"A mathematician's reputation rests on the number of bad proofs he has given." -- A. S. Besicovitch
"No mathematician can be a complete mathematician unless he ia also something of a poet" -- Karl Weierstrass
"I have only to touch mathematics, and I forget everything else on earth" -- Sonya Kovalevsky
